Fixing Memory Corruption Exploits
Memory corruption exploits,
such as buffer overflows,
are relatively complex and can be difficult to modify.
Before we jump into an example,
we should discuss the process
and highlight some of the considerations
and challenges we will face.
The general flow of a standard stack
overflow is fairly straight-forward.
The exploit will:
Create a large buffer to
trigger the overflow.
Take control of EIP
by overwriting a
return address on the stack
by padding the large buffer
with an appropriate offset.
Include in the buffer a chosen payload
prepended by an optional NOP sled.
Choose a correct
return address instruction
such as JMP ESP
in order to redirect the
execution flow into our payload.
As we fix the exploit, we may need to
modify elements of the deployed buffer
to suit our target
such as file paths,
IP addresses and ports or URLs.
If these modifications alter our offset,
we need to adjust the buffer length
to ensure we overwrite the
return address with the desired bytes.
Although we could trust that the return
address used in the exploit is correct,
the more responsible alternative is
to find the return address ourselves.
One of the most reliable ways to do this
is to clone the target environment locally
in a virtual machine
and then use a debugger on the
vulnerable software
to obtain the memory address
of the return address instruction.
We must also consider changing the payload
contained in the original exploit code.
Public exploits present an inherent danger
because they often contain
hex-encoded payloads
that must be reverse-engineered
to determine how they function.
Because of this, we must always review
the payloads used in public exploits
or better yet, insert our own.
When we do this, we will include
our own IP address and port numbers
and possibly exclude
certain bad characters,
which we can determine on our own or
glean from the exploit comments.
While generating our own payload
is advised whenever possible,
there are exploits which
use custom payloads
that are key for a successful
compromise of the vulnerable application.
If this is the case then our only option
is to reverse engineer the payload
to determine how it functions
and if it is safe to execute.
This is difficult and beyond
the scope of this module,
so we will instead focus on
shellcode replacement.
All of these considerations must be kept
in mind as we re-purpose the exploit.